# Foundation As A Starting Point

Once we are able to identify a clear and engaging purpose of the digital business in terms of guiding vectors, establishing the foundation of the digital transformation and on where to build this business is definitely and clearly the next step prior going crazy ahead on executing on full steam. Some may be confused about going "Agile" - go hiring, squad in, build up, release it - thinking that bias for action alone will be effective and efficient. Establishment of foundation principles and capabilities are key to sustaining the strategy and digital transformation programs and projects in the long run, it also sets the tone of the culture, practices and decision-making which will be cascaded to every individual contributor. Otherwise you might risk everything by becoming a tactical to operational executor with little to no room to focus on the strategy, its measurements, metrics and assess results. Having high time of preference, means you are inclined to favor the present with facts but simply restricted compared with the future, meaning being with a high time preference is more concerned about catering to present needs than those of the future. Trying shortcuts and cookie-cutters might sound great at first, but painful in the long run, so it isn't about sacrificing short-term objectives, but executing on top of foundations, and avoiding compromising the long-term goals and managing the digital transformation journey at the strategy tier.

Building a backwards plan from the aspired outcome, centering on how is your organization going to gain digital technology capabilities and expertise, how innovative user experiences as a way to create distinctive value will set the bar levels for the teams,  an adaptable, fast and automated as possible architecture at the organization, domains, processes, software and infrastructure levels will enable a platform of experiments, learnings and deploys. The process to uncover, relate and curate partners that will help you complete your value stream creation, how communication and connections of the people and processes will be efficient, and deliver engaging and valued results, coherent and be executed. And what are the conventions in terms of emergent processes that will allow agility and value-oriented development and delivery of your digital transformation, are prime thoughts that must be pondered to compose the foundations which the culture values will rely on, and the ones that accept the dynamics of life, so teams can adjust without deviating and taking a new direction without delivering the program and project, every well thought strategy deserves finality.

[<< previous](5-building_from_purpose.md) | [next >>](1-evolving_digital_thinking.md)
