# Postponing, getting deeper into the crisis

>"Raise your head, think broadly, openly and quickly, you might have been swallowed by the status quo and operational tasks, making things astray, making you lose sight to where you are heading for."

Organizations and businesses are subject to indulgence at many stages of their evolution and its operations, just as many people, who compose those organizations and businesses, grow oblivious of why culture, processes, tools and technologies are there for, imagine its purpose. The indulgence is a trait that shows up time in time, not because people don't care about the value proposition or its customers, is because they grow oblivious of original foundations at its early stages, as time passes by, those foundations which provided the purpose and reason which the organization developed and grew upon, gain entropy and accumulated agendas that disregarded the roots and origins of the problem it addressed. For many, the reason they are in that organization, serving a role to support a given function, isn't there anymore, not at the present in every employee life in the organization. Therefore indulgence in this case happens because the organization becomes autonomous in some extent, and the more autonomous, more people will produce highly specialized activities and strategies from their executives, they get sunk among so many other areas, losing a sense of connection, belonging and ownership. Similarly to what happens when we have many years of driving experience, we just indulge ourselves to be able to do more while driving, forgetting the importance of our attention to actually driving through traffic in a given area. When we least expect, we are caught up in a car crash, or bumping on others when parking, hard breaking, and who knows more possible casualties. Modern organizations and businesses suffer a natural set of distractions which tend to move people away from its core purpose, values and principles, such as individual career growth agendas, personal goals and objectives, sales mistakes and approaches, politics, selfish board of investors, blindful bonus schemes, poor human resources policies, lack of engaging leadership, tactical and desperate decisions and changes to shortcut strategies. Energy and interest of the people shun away from what used to be, and the most dangerous spot, you get yourself caught up in the midst of mediocracy. Therefore organizations are either losing great talent or retaining bad talent. This is a normal and natural trend to every mature and successful organization and business, a tendency to rest assured on a giant's shoulder, forgetting that universal rule, that everything is dynamic, relative and change is the norm, means, no one gets a break, as the organization is changing from within, as everything external is changing as well. What did work before, probably won't work anymore.

With some insights of what's going on in the organization, and recognizing that change is needed, the next stage, if by passing and overcoming denial - due to lack of interest of executives as they don't see themselves there anymore in the medium and long term - is the debate on what could be done to regain strength and build the future through people's engagement.

Thus more time passes by and no risky or auspicious action is made, more of the same, doing more with less, cost cuts and not lasting promises. Which usually ends up with the CEOs stepping down, a natural act of fear, dark clouds over the entire culture of the organization, with usually three outputs, people will leave, people will stay to see where it gets, people suffer alone in the middle of many others.
