# Tipping Point of Crisis

Nothing more coherent and well accepted as a defense first mechanism imposed by our limbic brain to our consciousness such as paralysis, the act to get your body paralized in the face of danger. This is also a survival strategy which kept us alive in some past occasions, but doesn't mean we should overuse it, it may work in some cases, but I tend to believe very rarely, and we should avoid being caught in this situation. For organizations and businesses, paralysis is so trivial in some time of their existence, and even worse when culture and ways of work have intoxicated and made those organizations and businesses so bureaucratic and darkish office places, losing its entire original purpose that provided to those organizations and businesses with needed drive, motivation and engagement to become relevant and successful in nations and markets. This chapter is our starting point of the digerati saga, the apostasis as I like to call, all those crises which stretch our body and psychological limits to get us beyond the so appealing safeness and paralysis mode. To get us off from this thriving on survival mode, we will need to go to find and apply an extra energy and courage,  to get us in a new soul search to achieve fulfilment, freedom, perhaps self realization and happiness. Trust me, when you hear around, go above and beyond on your duties, be dedicated and persistent, so to get you out of your comfort zone, what does that truly mean to you? For me, it means to put extra effort, dedication, persistence, think broadly and deeply on issues, plan things up, execute them thoroughly, extract learnings, and learnings from actual doing the work, so you can expand your comfort zone a lot, and avoid being trapped and paralized in face of challenges imposed upon you, not only those from your competitors and incumbents, but by other people, organizations and businesses that entirely disrupt you, leaving you without grounds, succumbing to fear and desperation. Time is of essence, so acting prior or while you have control over it, so time doesn't play against you. 
In no other moment of our human history have we seen so much change in such a short period of time, we see old, well-established organizations and businesses vanishing very quickly, others reinventing themselves, or at least gaining new purposes and getting funds from investors, and at the other spectrum, we see so many new organizations and businesses flourishing with a steep curve of growth and in fast pace. This is stressful for existing organizations and businesses, also adding a lot of speculation and misleading traders and investors around the world, as the global economy scales are huge, with high risks and volatility, and feels that some of those organizations stand on bare faith alone. However all those changes feel and fuel positiveness to citizens and consumers, as we are benefitting dramatically from this continual and adaptive services delivered to us. On the other hand, there is a lot of collateral damage, as through a globalized economy, every trade and transaction from disparate businesses are so connected, that any failure or success has an impact not only on stable and predictive markets, but impacts on entirely unknown other markets, as some of the most interesting facts in this digital age, are the impacts to society models and structures, popular culture phenomena, mental health, politics, and so on. Many point to technology as the sitting driver, and that's the part I disagree entirely, because this digital phenomena and pletora of technology applications originates in us, for us, to us, most of the time. We are behind the technology and applying it in so many inventive and creative ways, with little maturity, moral and ethics, not claiming to be conservative, but because we simply can't understand the extensions and unfolds of the impacts caused by our technology applications, until they are deployed, exploited, used by many. Thus, after all these learnings since the advent of the internet, we need to focus on addressing real problems, with responsibility, sustainability and ethics. So the digerati saga implies that we must evolve, learn, domain and have a great deal of technology acumen, but this knowledge and skills are just our tools and means to accomplish something much greater as a human being. We are in the era of self-learning and self-exploration, and there is nothing cozy or safe about it, but something we must go through as a civilization, in the hopes to overcome past flaws from civilizations, facing then as challenges, acting as warriors, in the face of the digerati saga, a novel full of challenges, pitfalls, games, emotions and dilemmas.
If one thing sounds to be right, is the fact that crisis, even though avoidable ones, when happen, they are a source of a great challenges leading to outstanding opportunities to be tapped, assessed, reviewed, adjusted and acted on propelling and creating relevant innovations, all we need is to hear the silent signals of the crisis uprising, listen it fairly, with interest and engagement, a battle field for the digerati warrior to build upon.
